# Community Office Hour: 2021-12-08

**What was covered:**

- [Auto-Gitpodifyer demo](#the-auto-gitpodifyer) by Jan Keromnes
- [Questions from the community](#questions-from-the-community)
- [Extra Resources](#extra-resources)

## The Auto Gitpodifyer

### What?

- [config inferrer](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/blob/main/components/server/src/projects/config-inferrer.ts)

- repository --> guessed `.gitpod.yml`

### Why?

```bash
npm install
npm run build # 5min!
node app.js
```

- Configuring it by hand is tedious! --> `.gitpod.yml`

- but... writing a `.gitpod.yml` is complicated! --> auto-generate? (~80% solution is fine)

### How?

- if (`Cargo.toml`) --> `cargo build`

- if (`package.json`) --> `npm install` (OR if `yarn.lock` --> `yarn install`)

- ... see [the full code](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/blob/main/components/server/src/projects/config-inferrer.ts)

### When?

- runs when you add a new Project to Gitpod, but it doesn't have a `.gitpod.yml` yet

- In the future, we'd like to make always generate a `.gitpod.yml`, for every Project: [issue](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/issues/6921)

### Demo

## Questions from the community

**Q: How is the ConfigInferrer wrapped / where is this code called from in Gitpod?**

**A:** _Gitpod's dashboard calls this server API method: [guessRepositoryConfiguration(cloneUrl)](https://github.com/gitpod-io/gitpod/blob/a481e8b536295863e1767ea349fc511666e1c84d/components/server/src/workspace/gitpod-server-impl.ts#L1684-L1694)_

**Q: What's the difference between free, professional-open source and paid plans in terms of hardware resources and cluster traffic, if there are any.**

**A:** _Currently, there is no difference. However, this is something we've definitely considered. Keep an eye out!_

**Q What is the schedule of new features / bug fixes, from the time the PR is marked "solved/done" until it is available in production?**

**A:** _Engineering teams at Gitpod are split in 3 teams: Meta, Workspace and IDE. Each release new features in different schedules. For instance, Meta releases every Tuesday and Tuesday. In the case of a bugfix or feature has been merged on Friday, it then is shipped on the Tuesday._

**Q. How does the current vision compare with the initial vision that led to the creation of Gitpod?**

**A.** _We had some awesome dicussion about this and definitely agreed it was a great question! Gitpodders on the call shared the same sentiment that Gitpod has always been about improving developer tooling and this is still strong in our current vision._

**Q. What happened to the forum? What are the future plans for community?**

**A.** _We decided to remove support for our forum because of 3 key things:_

_1) issues with compliance_
_2) support maintanence_
_3) people bumping old threads with outdated information_

_It's a CTA on us to improve our docs, videos, content, product etc which we are proactively doing now!_

_Discord is where our community hangs out. This may change in the future - we may open up GitHub Discussions, but for now this is where the party is at_ 🎉

## Extra resources

- <https://github.com/gitpod-io/definitely-gp/>
- <https://discord.com/channels/816244985187008514/879914823570309160/917760331172937738/>
